GROUP 3 CHARTER

Availability for meeting expectations:
John Schiltz:
Mon: 	11-12, 2pm - ?
Tue: 	4pm - ?
Wed: 	3pm - ?
Thu: 	4pm - ?
Friday 	3pm - ?

David Krisna:
Availability for meeting:
  Mon: 2 PM - above
  Tue: 2 PM - above
  Wed: 2 PM - above
  Thu: 2 PM - above
  Fri: 2 PM - above

TouKoua Xiong:
  Avaliablity of meetings:
  For discord calls:
  M-F 6pm-9pm
  If you do need me for anything outside of those hours, send me a message. I tend to respond quickly. At the latest, it should be at the end of the day.

Lisa Isaeva:
  Discord: work days 11am-5pm
  
LL (typical weekly availability): 
Saturday and Sunday 8am-8pm 
Monday and Wednesday 4pm-8pm
Tuesday and Thursday 5pm-6pm
Friday 5pm-9pm

Response time to communication expectations:
John Schiltz: 1-2 business days
Lisa Isaeva: 1-2 business days
David Krisna: 1-2 days
LL: max 24 hours (email or discord) though preferably sooner

Communication expectations when group member is late/missing a meeting:
  If a member has prior knowledge of a missed meeting or tardiness of a day or more, that 
  member shall send a message to the group chat. 

Definition of done: when is a task complete? (hint: "I'm done with that but I didn't check it into Github" is not done.)
John Schiltz: Checked into the repo. Requires 2 separate reviewers for merge with master
David Krisna:
  All of the group member agreed with what we have. 
  Made sure that at least 2 person have a comment about the code.
  Made sure to make changes (pull req).
  
TouKoua Xiong:
Definition of done:
you should make a pull request of your changes. That way we are able to see what you have done and effectively track your progress on your tasks 
and decide together if the task is done
LL: 
accomplishes task, tested/checked, refactored and submitted to github (if code) 

Scrum meeting format/frequency and distribution of documentation tasks (meeting minutes, updating task board)
John Schiltz:
  Updated your task as soon as it is updatable / before meetings
  Bi-weekly meeting 30min-45min. anything over 45 minutes usually gets unproductive. 
  Meetings should go over each person, checking on what they've done since the last meeting if they are stuck on anything if there is anything they need from us to move forward.

David Krisna:
  Keep the files up to date.

TouKoua Xiong:
Scrum Meeting Format:
I think meetings should generally be about an hour long. Most meetings I've had don't really meet that mark, so I think that's a good time period
Members should go over what they did and then what's troubling them or preventing them from working. From there we can redistribute tasks if need be.

LL: 
format - Discord?   frequency - three times a week? (the minimum he gave us)
meeting minutes - make a shared document (Docs, Word, etc) in which to put the minutes, type them in as we go along
Update taskboard as we go (I actually have a Google Jamboard set up that I thought we could use for this - or not, whatever works)
Jamboard link https://jamboard.google.com/d/1XlCyv7fE5Bye8d7yDhoXDwzSedEDcZOMjh2wSthYeFw/edit?usp=sharing


Procedure for adopting policies (e.g. code style, code check-in steps, documentation updates)
if you adopt such a policy during the initial meeting, put it here
John Schiltz:
  Propose at meeting. Vote with majority? IDK
  CI with auto-formatting, 2 required reviewers for check-in. Updated documentation when you finish a module/class/method
TouKoua Xiong:
Adopting policies:
Not really sure about this yet. I think at the very least we need to discuss it and how it would benefit us during the development process.

LL: 
propose to group, put it to a vote (needs at least 4 out of 6 to pass)
if accepted, add onto bottom of charter so that we have a running record of the group's policies


Procedure for handling a member who is not meeting expectations
must include at least 3 actions before involving the instructor
John Schiltz:
  Schedule a meeting to go over any roadblocks they are running into. 
  Try to set clear directives on what needs to be done.
  At the next scrum meeting, mby try to move around tasks to fit what the member is capable of 
  After that, it is their job to get things done.
  
David Krisna:
 - Made sure to have a separate meeting to make sure everything is up to date/discuss some problem that 
   might have encountered.
 - Try to shift the workload towards members evenly.
 - Made sure that the other member knows what to do for each task.

TouKoua Xiong:
If member is not meeting expectations:
We need to contact them first and see what's up. If there is no response after 2 days, we need to schedule a meeting with the rest of the group to
redistirbute tasks and decide how to "motivate" the member.

LL:
1. Message/ping them with reminders encouraging them to do what they should be doing
2. Discuss their behavior with them in the next meeting and come up with strategies on how to get them back on track
-- If necessary, at this point, the group can start reassigning their parts (especially those that others need to get done in order to progress) --
3. Email member, with everyone in the group CC'ed, reiterating what they're doing (or not doing) that doesn't meet expectations [both as a reminder and as documentation]

Isaac John Lawson:
1. Nights normally work best for me, M/W I finish class at 6:15PM, T/TH I finish at 5:00PM, free Friday-Sunday any time
2. 30 minutes to an hour at in worst possible case. 
3. Task is complete when all group members come to a general agreement that it is done, may require levels of compromise
4. I think 2-3 times a week seems reasonable given that is standard to the typical amount of times you would meet for a class
each week. Perhaps an hour or two per meeting depending on what we are working on? 
5. Overall document that tracks our desired policies from the get go (outline code style, check-insteps, and documentation)
  5a. Second document of proposed policies/styles, etc. If agreed upon by a majority of group members, add them to the official list
6. Assuming we have 3 actions before involving the instructor, we can adopt a sort of "3-strikes" policy
  1. The first time it happens (assuming with valid excuse) we as a group (the person who did not meet expectations obviously included) can make up
  the slack. It isn't the greatest solution, but we all fall short of expectations at least once in a while, so a single pass doesn't seem ridiculous to me.
  We are a team, so we can help eachother out once in a while.
  2. The second time, we can have a group sit-down where we each explain to the person who hasn't met expectations how this is negatively affecting our work
  flow. Often, the pressure of letting down your group mates is a huge motivator.
  3. The third time, we can talk to the scrum master and ask them to have a one on one meeting with the individual
7. Isaac Lawson

Signatures: each member must sign their name by typing their name at the bottom of the document.
John Schiltz
Lisa Isaeva
David Krisna
TouKoua Xiong
Lily Levrault
Isaac John Lawson
